Jehovah's Witnesses love the Bible.
Long before taking on the monumental task of Bible translation,
they acquired licenses to print already existing translations of the Bible.
And then in the 1950s, the Watchtower Bible and Trek Society printed the first Bible
ever to be translated by Jehovah's Witnesses, the New World translation of the Holy Scriptures.
At least, we thought it was the first Bible ever to be translated by Jehovah's Witnesses.
Well, in the fall of 2017, the World Headquarters Museum, the Department received a Bible,
donated by a brother in Germany.
A company in the Bible was a letter referring to a rare Bible printed in 1934 at Macdeburg,
the location of the Watchtower Bible and Trek Society's Germany branch and printer at that time.
Little was known about this Bible.
And to those who didn't know of it, it was thought of as something unapproved
by the then president of the Society, J.F. Rutherford.
By 1934, Adolf Hitler's campaign against Jehovah's Witnesses was well underway.
Our religious activities were banned.
65 tons of literature had been seized and burned by Nazi authorities.
And the branch office and printer at Macdeburg had already been confiscated
and released several times.
And this may explain why the Macdeburg Bible doesn't have a typical publishes page listing
of who published it, who translated when and where it was printed.
But on the bottom of one of the last pages, there is just one line in small letters
and it reads, printed, watched our Bible and Trek Society Macdeburg.
Interestingly, on September 13th, 1934, the Ministry of the Interior of the German government
granted permission for the Macdeburg office to resume the printing and distribution of bubbles.
However, everybody knew that the facilities could be shut down again, perhaps permanently at any time.
What really could be accomplished in the limited time they had?
The Macdeburg office informed Rutherford that they had possession of a new testament manuscript.
Ready for printing and additionally a translation of the old testament was nearly complete.
In October 1934, Rutherford approved the printing of 100,000 copies, but time was running out.
For the Rutherford received the following letter dated August 6, 1935,
and it says, in the afternoon of July 10th, a number of officials of the secret police
of Berlin and Macdeburg appeared and sealed the factory, rooms and offices at Macdeburg.
Close all factory rooms, attach the property and money of the society.
Several thousand bubbles were just being bound and the rest is printed.
Sadly, only a small number of those bubbles actually made it out of the printer.
In November 2017, after a careful surge, we were able to obtain three copies of the Macdeburg Bible.
Little did we know what a treasured place in our organization's history of Bible translation and printing this Bible deserves.
It's not a mere compilation of existing translations, but a fresh, a unique translation of the Bible.
Jehovah's name is used extensively in the text of the Hebrew scriptures, as well as in footnotes of the Christian Greek scriptures.
The Macdeburg Bible was also cited in German language editions of the Watchtower.
And nearly a century later, the text can still be easily understood by the German reader.
This Bible translation truly has a remarkable story.
Its print run was small by normal Bible printing standards and its distribution was even smaller.
And although it was produced in record time and under highly dangerous circumstances,
it story lay forgotten for decades until it was rediscovered.
The Macdeburg Bible is the first non-bible to be translated and published by Jehovah's Witnesses, predating the new world translation of the Holy Scriptures.
It was able to survive in a time of Nazi government opposition and is now part of our Bible museum at Warwick.
This Bible truly is a testimony to the words we find in Isaiah 40 verse 8.
But Jehovah's Word bliped evictly.